---
title: 'Blog Post number 1'
date: 2021-01-22
permalink: /posts/2021/01/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - Selenium
  - Web Scraping
  - Python
---

Creating a Webdriver Class in Selenium
======================================

The goal of this class is to create a webdriver class using [Selenium](https://selenium-python.readthedocs.io/) in order to scrape some webpage for content.
For this tutorial, we assume that the Firefox browser is used on a Windows 10 operating system (note that the browser itself has to be present on the operating system so that this works).
Nevertheless, this can be easily adapted or extended to any operating system and browser.
When looking at the [Selenium documentation](https://selenium-python.readthedocs.io/), it is mentioned that the webdrivers used must be inclueded in ``PATH``.
For this tutorial, we will not be using the webdriver within the ``PATH`` environment variable, but download the driver into a directory of our choice.

We start by setting up a simple project structure as there are some additional files needed to execute a browser using Selenium.

````bash
project
│   README.md
│   test.py
│   .gitignore
│
└───scraper
│   │   driver.py
│   │   
│   └───drivers
│       │   geckodriver.exe
````

Inside our project, there are is the typical ``README.md`` file and a ``test.py`` file which we will be using later.
To execute a browser using Selenium, we first need to install the Firefox Geckodriver, which can be obtained [on this website](https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver/releases).
Select the version you use and download the corresponding files into the ``drivers`` directory.

First, we are going to implement the ``Webdriver`` class
We start by importing the necessary libraries for this class.

````python
from selenium import webdriver
from selenium.webdriver.chrome.options import Options
````

Next, we first define the class and its corresponding ``__init__`` method.

````python
class Webdriver:

    def __init__(self, browser: str, url: str, headless: bool = True) -> None:
        options = Options()
        options.headless = headless
        self._driver = webdriver.Chrome(options=options, executable_path=self._path)
````
